+++
title = "Better Anki Usage Guide [2019]"
slug = "better-anki-usage-guide-2019"
date = "2019-05-19"
tags = ["memorization", "anki"]
draft = true
categories = ["learning"]
description = "Anki is a good app for memorization, but making some modifications turns it into a phenomenal app."
+++

= Better Anki Usage Guide [2019]

references = [ [``Guide to Anki Intervals and Learning Steps'',
``https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1XaJjbCSXT0''], [``Enhancing learning
and retarding forgetting: Choices and consequences, Pashler, Rohrer,
Cepeda, & Carpenter (2007)'',
``https://s3.amazonaws.com/andrewzah.com/studies/Pashler.Rohrer.Cepeda.Carpenter_2007.pdf''],
[``MAINTENANCE OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE VOCABULARY AND THE SPACING EFFECT,
Bahrick Et al (1993)'',
``https://s3.amazonaws.com/andrewzah.com/studies/Bahrick-et-al-1993-spacing-effect.pdf''],
[``Low-Key Anki'',
``https://massimmersionapproach.com/table-of-contents/anki/''],
[``Targeting an 80-90% Success Rate in Anki'',
``https://eshapard.github.io/anki/target-an-80-90-percent-success-rate-in-anki.html''],
[``Low-Key Anki: No Penalties or Boosting'',
``https://massimmersionapproach.com/table-of-contents/anki/low-key-anki/low-key-anki-no-penalties-or-boosting/''],
[``Low-Key Anki: ResetEZ'',
``https://massimmersionapproach.com/table-of-contents/anki/low-key-anki/low-key-anki-no-penalties-or-boosting/''],]

resources = [ [``Anki Documentation'',
``https://apps.ankiweb.net/docs/manual.html''], [``Anki’s Starting Ease
Factor Setting'',
``https://eshapard.github.io/anki/ankis-initial-ease-factor-setting.html''],
[``Augmenting Long-term Memory'',
``http://augmentingcognition.com/ltm.html''], [``Everything I Know:
Strategies, Tips, and Tricks for Anki'',
``https://senrigan.io/blog/everything-i-know-strategies-tips-and-tricks-for-spaced-repetition-anki/''],
[``John Baez on Research Tactics'',
``https://intelligence.org/2014/02/21/john-baez-on-research-tactics/''],
[``Supermemo Algorithm'',
``https://www.supermemo.com/en/archives1990-2015/english/ol/sm2''],
[``Supermemo Research'',
``https://www.supermemo.com/en/archives1990-2015/english/ol/beginning#Algorithm'']]

As you may or may not know, I love https://apps.ankiweb.net/[Anki], the
spaced repetition flash cards app. I’ve been using it in my Korean
learning journey for almost one and a half years now and I’ve written
about it before. It’s a good app, but you can have a much better
experience by making some modifications to it.

If you don’t know what Anki is or why it’s compelling, I recommend you
read http://augmentingcognition.com/ltm.html[_Augmenting Long-term
Memory_], a blog post by Michael Nielsen.
https://senrigan.io/blog/everything-i-know-strategies-tips-and-tricks-for-spaced-repetition-anki/[_Everything
I know: Tips and Tricks for Anki_] by Jeff Shek also has a beginner’s
guide.

If you’re new to Anki, the very first thing I recommend doing is
https://apps.ankiweb.net/docs/manual.html[reading the manual], or at
least https://apps.ankiweb.net/docs/manual.html#the-basics[the basics].

I recommend using Anki for at least 2-3 weeks before reading the rest of
this article.

== Changing default settings

Anki out of the box has two problematic defaults, and one default that I
don’t recommend personally.

=== Resetting card progress

Let’s say you have learned a card, but when you review it you make a
mistake in recalling it, for whatever reason. Call it a brain fart, or
pressing too quickly, etc. Or you simply forgot!

By default, Anki resets your progress to that of a new card. So even if
you had worked the card up to a ~4 month interval, now you have to see
it in 1 day, 2 days, 4 days, all over again…

Even if you forget a card, you still had learned it at one point. Which
means re-learning it is now significantly easier. By completely
resetting the card’s intervals, Anki is wasting your time. It slowly
conditions you to be unwilling to press `Again`, which is not desireable
at all.\{\{fn(n=0)}}

*Solution*: In your deck’s options group under Lapses, change
`New interval` to `70%`. This means if you forget a card, the new
interval will be 70% of the old one. As for why I chose 70%, it just
felt like an appropriate amount–feel free to play with different
percentages to see what works best for you.

=== Taking too long to mark Leeches

After you initially learn a card (the card reached a 1 day interval in
default anki), if you forget it 8 times, Anki marks it as a Leech and
suspends the card, not showing it to you anymore.

A card being a leech generally means its too complicated, or you’re
getting it confused with a similar one. 8 times means it’s going to take
way too long to identify cards that are problematic.

*Solution*: In your deck’s options group under Lapses, change
`Leech threshold` to `4`. You may also want to change `Leech action` to
`tag only`. This way you can easily sort for leech cards and modify or
delete them.

As for handling leech cards, you generally want to simplify the card, or
delete it outright. With the time and energy that you wasted on trying
to recall a leech you could have learned a bunch of other cards. If it’s
a word that you don’t want to delete, you can suspend the card, and
practice using that word outside of anki. When you feel more comfortable
with it you can unsuspend it.

=== Mixing new and review cards

By default, Anki mixes new and review cards. However, reviewing is
vastly more important than learning new cards–it’s okay if you don’t
memorize new cards every day, but missing reviews really hurts your
memorization progress.

By putting reviews first, you can always do reviews daily and then
choose to learn new words or not depending on how busy you are, how
tired you are, etc. If the cards are mixed you can’t do this, making it
likely you’ll just skip Anki for that day entirely, which can can
quickly snowball into not using anki at all anymore. This happened to
me.

*Solution*: In Anki’s preferences, change `Mix new cards and reviews` to
`Show new cards after reviews`.

=== Making better card templates

The *Basic* card template in Anki has two fields: `Front` and `Back`.
This is the minimum for flashcards obviously, but as you make cards it’s
likely you’ll want to have separate information.

Over time my personal *Zah Korean* card template has grown to eight
fields: `english`, `korean`, `grammarType`, `samples`, `hanja`, `notes`,
`image` and `sound`. On the front I show `english`, and `grammarType` as
a hint. Some people put sample sentences but I find this leads to
short-circuiting your recall; instead of recalling the word you
recognize that sentence.

I also have a *Zah Colorcard* template which has a `hexColor` field.
Because I initially tried to learn colors in Korean like regular
vocabulary, which makes no sense. Anki lets you pull in values easily in
the template’s html and css sections.

You can modify a card’s fields by going to Add or Edit, then clicking on
`Fields...`. You can add a new card type by going to Add or Edit, then
click on the type, and then click `Manage`.

=== Better styling with html and css

Default anki’s styling is very plain. I recommend modifying it to show
different fields in different colors. For example, my `grammarType`
field is rendered in green while `hanja` is rendered in purple. I render
my color card’s hex value dynamically. Here’s what my cards look like;
the horizontal line denotes the front and back:

image::https://s3.amazonaws.com/andrewzah.com/posts/017/templates.jpg[How my templates look for sample cards]

You can go to Browse, Add, or Edit and click on `Cards...` to get to the
style dialogue. Some premade decks include nice styling for you, or
default to a night mode. For more in-depth info, you can visit
https://apps.ankiweb.net/docs/manual.html#card-styling[styling in the
anki manual].

== Why behavior-changing plugins are needed

Essentially, the way Anki treats cards is not intuitive, and actually
hampers your memorization progress. Let’s say you’re reviewing a
card–you have four options. `Again`, if you forget, and `Hard`, `Good`,
or `Easy`.

You would assume this means "I (the user) had a hard/good/easy time
recalling this card today", right? Well, Anki actually sees it as
"this card is intrinsically more difficult; please modify it
permanently".

Huh?

You see, every card in Anki has an individual `ease` percentage,
starting at 250% by default. The algorithm that calculates a new
interval goes like:

....
NewInterval = OldInterval × CardEase × DeckIntervalModifier

Where:
  OldInterval: 1 day is the first default value
  CardEase: 250% by default
  DeckIntervalModifier: 1.0 by default, set on a per-deck basis
....

When you hit `Again`, `Hard` or `Easy`, Anki modifies the ease by
`-20%`, `-15%`, or `+15%`, respectively. A card’s ease can’t go lower
than 130%. You can see now why people recommend not hitting `Easy` at
all.. it quickly snowballs.

[.smol]
image::https://s3.amazonaws.com/andrewzah.com/posts/017/wack.jpg[still of Hannibal Buress on The Eric Andre Show saying the word wack]

So you might be saying, why is seeing cards too often, aka
"overlearning", an issue? Either way, I’m seeing more difficult cards
more often.. Well, research suggests that after an initial period, the
extra time spent doesn’t actually lead to better recall.

In one study (Rohrer, Taylor, Pashler, Wixted, & Cepeda, 2005), college
students learned novel vocabulary (e.g., cicatrix–scar), cycling through
a list of word–definition pairs either 5 or 10 times. *The extra 5
cycles yielded a substantial benefit after 1 week, but the gain was no
longer apparent after 4 weeks* … From a long-term perspective,
overlearning appears to be inefficient almost to the point of wasting
time.[0]

Now take a look at what happens in Anki if you lower the ease too much:

image::https://s3.amazonaws.com/andrewzah.com/posts/017/ease-example.jpg[Image taken from Guide to Anki Intervals and Learning Steps[1]]

So even if you know a card enough to hit `Good`, if you had hit `Hard`
3-4 times prior, the interval growth rate is permanently stunted due to
how Anki works. You would have to hit `Easy` to balance it which is
counterintuitive.

Research also suggests that larger spacing is better in the long term.

In a 9-year longitudinal investigation, 4 subjects learned and relearned
300 English-foreign language word pairs. Either 13 or 26 relearning
sessions were administered at intervals of 14, 28, or 56 days. Retention
was tested for 1, 2, 3, or 5 years after training terminated. *The
longer intersession intervals slowed down acquisition slightly, but this
disadvantage during training was offset hy substantially higher
retention.* Thirteen retraining sessions spaced at 56 days yielded
retention comparable to 26 sessions spaced at 14 days.[2]

Our results can be summarized as follows. We find that over substantial
time periods, spacing has powerful (and typically nonmonotonic) effects
on retention, with optimal memory occurring when spacing is some modest
fraction of the final retention interval (perhaps about 10%–20%).[1]

With that out of the way, here are the plugins I use.

== Utilizing subdecks

If you review from multiple decks daily, you can use a parent deck with
subdecks to mix reviews. This is my own personal opinion, but I think
it’s better for recall if you change contexts. This is more like recall
in real life.

Making subdecks in anki is really easy–just make a parent deck, and drag
decks onto it. Or you can manually rename the deck in this format:
`Parent Deck Name::Subdeck Name`. If done right, it should appear like
this:

image::https://s3.amazonaws.com/andrewzah.com/posts/017/subdecks.png[A picture of anki open displaying how the interface shows subdecks]

The only issue is Anki will still do reviews one deck at a time. I tried
using the experimental V2 scheduler, but it didn’t work for me. So now
we have to turn to a plugin:
https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1460733408[HoochieMama: Randomize Rev
Queue]. After you install this, open Anki’s preferences, and in the
Muffins tab enable `Hoochie Mama! RandRevQ w/ subdeck limit`. *Note*:
back up your anki before adding behavior modification plugins like this.

That’s it! Now you can review from multiple subdecks, and new cards are
still deck by deck. If you want to mix new cards as well, there’s
https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1173108619[Hoochie Papa]. I personally
don’t think that is as useful.

== Utilizing filter decks

== Visual Plugins

These aren’t really necessary but I like seeing stats. Give me all the
stats.

[[true-retention-by-card-maturityretention]]
=== https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/923360400[True Retention by Card
Maturity]

This is basically a fancy stats plugin. You can see a detailed breakdown
by day, week, and month, and see your true retention rate. You want
roughly 80-90% retention. [TODO]

[[more-decks-stats-and-time-leftmore-decks]]
=== https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1556734708[More decks stats and time
left]

``This addon shows extra information of the due cards and returns the
expected time to finalize (Due+New).''

[[enhance-main-windowenhance]]
=== https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/877182321[Enhance main window]

This adds more stats to the main window via columns. As you can see in
that link, the default config adds quite a lot, so I
https://gist.github.com/azah/0391ce0fc3e90f3defea75ef518fd195[modified
my config] to pare it down, which looks like this:

image::https://s3.amazonaws.com/andrewzah.com/posts/017/enhanced.png[A picture displaying how the anki main window looks different with this plugin enabled]

Note that the stats at the bottom are from the
`More decks stats and time left` plugin.

[[progress-graphs-and-stats-for-mature-and-learned-cardsprogress-graphs]]
=== https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/266436365[Progress graphs and stats
for mature and learned cards]

Adds two new graphs to the stats window.

[[button-colours-good-againbutton-colors]]
=== https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/2494384865[Button Colours (Good,
Again)]

Simply colorizes Again to be red, Good to be green, etc. It’s a small
but nice thing to have when reviewing. There’s also
https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1829090218[Large and Colorful Buttons]
if you wanted even more colorful buttons.

[[kanji-gridkanji-grid]]
=== https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/909972618[Kanji Grid]

This is an awesome plugin that visually shows your kanji learning
progress. Simply select a deck that has a `kanji` field, and run Tools >
`Generate Kanji Grid`. It looks like this:

[.full-width]
image::https://s3.amazonaws.com/andrewzah.com/posts/017/kanji-grid.png[A grid showing kanji characters with a color background based on how long the current interval is]

This was generated from my deck with the default settings.

== Behavior Plugins

This is where things get fun. These plugins change the core
functionality of Anki, so please, read about them and make sure you
understand what they do before adding them.

*Back up your Anki before installing these*.

[[search-in-add-card-dialoguesearch-in]]
=== https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1781298089[Search in Add Card
Dialogue]

This adds a pane to the `Add Card` window, letting you quickly search
through your Anki decks for keywords. It’s very useful for finding
duplicates, or searching among sample sentences.

The only con is the search doesn’t work for non-ascii text. When I have
time I plan on fixing this.

[[resetezlowkey-install]]
===
https://massimmersionapproach.com/table-of-contents/anki/low-key-anki/low-key-anki-summary-and-installation/[ResetEZ]

This adds a command in your Tools menu called
`Reset Ease + Force Sync After`. It resets *all* Anki cards to have the
default ease value, 250%. You have to install it manually.

[[no-penalties-or-boostinglowkey-install]]
===
https://massimmersionapproach.com/table-of-contents/anki/low-key-anki/low-key-anki-summary-and-installation/[No
Penalties or Boosting]

This changes `Again`, `Hard`, and `Easy` to not change the card’s ease
value. By default, Anki modifies it by -20%, -15%, or +15%,
respectively. This is a bad idea, and I go into more detail [in my other
anki post][TODO]. This goes hand in hand with ResetEZ. It also needs to
be manually installed.

[[hoochie-mama-randomize-rev-queuehoochie]]
=== https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1460733408[Hoochie Mama: Randomize
Rev Queue]

See link:#utilizing-subdecks[Making use of subdecks] above. This
randomizes review cards in subdecks.

== Other Plugins

There may be plugins for the language that you’re learning. Japanese has
several, for example. It’s worth searching ``anki \{language}'' to see
what’s available.

== Conclusion

Considering that we end up using Anki for years, it’s worth taking some
time to improve it and read the documentation closely. Is there a plugin
or change that you feel like I missed? Let me know.

I have also written a post on
link:../posts/things-to-avoid-with-anki[general things to avoid while
using Anki] that I recommend you check out.
